In 1980, Cuban refugee and ex-convict Tony Montana arrives in Miami as part of the Mariel boatlift, where he is sent to a refugee camp with his best friend, Manny Ribera, and their companions, Angel and Chi-Chi. The four are released and given green cards in exchange for murdering a former senior henchman of Fidel Castro, at the request of Miami drug lord Frank Lopez. They find work as dishwashers at a restaurant, but are soon dissatisfied; Tony says that he is meant for bigger things. Frank's right-hand man, Omar Suarez, sends the four to purchase cocaine from Colombian dealers. Tony and Angel are taken at gunpoint; Tony is made to watch as Angel is dismembered with a chainsaw, before Manny and Chi-Chi rescue him. They kill three of the dealers and personally deliver the recovered drugs and money to Frank, suspecting that Omar set them up.

Tony becomes attracted to Frank's trophy wife, Elvira. Tony and Manny begin working for Frank. Later, Tony visits his mother and younger sister Gina, of whom he is overprotective. Expressing his hope for an easier life for the family, Tony gifts his mother $1,000, claiming he earns money through "political means". Tony's mother sees through his lie and angrily disowns him, but Gina keeps the money. Manny is attracted to Gina, but Tony warns him to stay away. Frank sends Tony and Omar to Cochabamba, Bolivia to meet with cocaine kingpin Alejandro Sosa. During the meeting, Omar is unhappy when Tony negotiates a large deal without Frank's approval. Sosa later has his men hang Omar from a helicopter, telling Tony that Omar was a police informant and that Frank has poor judgment for having trusted him. Tony vouches for Frank's organization and proclaims his loyalty; Sosa takes a liking to Tony and agrees to the deal, but warns Tony to never double-cross him.

Seeing that Frank is infuriated by Omar's death, and knowing the size of the deal with Sosa, Tony sets up his own cocaine operation. Mel Bernstein, a corrupt detective on Frank's payroll, accosts Tony at a nightclub, attempting to extort him for police protection. Tony spots Gina fraternizing with a man, and violently confronts them both when he sees him grope her. Hitmen then attempt to kill Tony, who escapes with a bullet wound. He confronts Frank and Bernstein, certain that they are behind the attack; Frank confesses his involvement at gunpoint and begs for his life, but Tony has Manny shoot him before killing Bernstein. Tony marries Elvira, becoming the distributor of Sosa's product, and uses his profits to build a multi-million-dollar empire and a large, heavily guarded estate.

In 1983, a money laundering sting operation by federal agents results in Tony being charged with tax evasion and facing potential prison time. Sosa offers to use his government connections to keep Tony out of prison, but only if Tony helps kill an activist intending to expose Sosa's drug operations. During dinner at an upscale restaurant, Tony blames Manny for his arrest and accuses Elvira of being an infertile junkie, prompting Elvira to leave him. Tony and Sosa's henchman, "Shadow", travel to New York City to assassinate the activist; Shadow puts a radio-controlled bomb under his car, but Tony tries to cancel the hit upon seeing the activist accompanied by his wife and children. When Shadow refuses, Tony kills him before he can detonate the bomb. Tony then returns to Miami, and an enraged Sosa vows retribution for allowing the activist to deliver the exposé.

At his mother's behest, Tony, who is high on cocaine, tracks down Gina and finds her with Manny. In a fit of rage, Tony shoots Manny dead. Right after, he learns that Gina had just married him. A distraught Tony returns to his estate, with Gina, and begins a massive cocaine binge in his office. Sosa's men begin to invade the grounds and kill Tony's guards, including Chi-Chi, as Gina enters the office with a gun, accusing him of wanting her for himself. She shoots and wounds him, but is killed by one of Sosa's men whom Tony kills in return. Tony takes a rifle and a grenade launcher to the invaders, killing many of them, but suffering multiple gunshot wounds. He taunts his attackers until an assassin climbs up to the office and shoots him in the back. Tony's body falls off the balcony into the pool, resting near the base of a globe with the ironic motto, "The World Is Yours".

Cast